#labels Featured
=New Features of Version 2.0=

  * Structures may be displayed/hidden for all visible Smiles strings (in enabled sheets) by toggling with {{{<Ctrl-T>}}}.  This feature is primarily intended to view structures whilst scrolling through the sheet.  Although you do have access to other Excel features while structures are displayed you should normally toggle structure display off before carrying out other operations.  For example, you can display structures correctly with or without filtered columns in place.  However, an attempt to filter whilst structures are being displayed will give problems.  Structures are not stored in the sheet; they are rendered on-the-fly.  Only the last 100 are kept in memory - if you want to print a sheet with structures therefore,  make sure that you have just viewed the structures you wish to print.
  * When viewing individual structures, the structure window may be moved and/or resized.  Its new position/size will be rememberd for the current Excel session
  * A new Excel formula is available 'GetCDKDescriptor' which will return any CDK Molecular descriptor chosen in addition to the Molecular Formula and the Molecular weight.  You can enter this formula manually, but an automated entry routine is provided for you on the main  LICSS Programs menu.  For descriptors which return arrays, the first value is displayed by default - there is an index parameter provided if another array column is required (see CDK documentation for details of return values or use the routine described below)
  * The molecular descriptors described above can be retrieved for the whole 'Smiles' range from the LICSS Programs menu.  In this case, all array values are returned and the names describing each return value are also included.  Values are returned as strings and you can use normal Excel functionality to convert these to values
  * Name to Smiles conversion is provided by Opsin
  * Automatic installation via the Internet is provided